Darren,
could you read Psalm 116:12?
It says:
“With what will I repay Jehovah
for all the good
he has done for me?”
How can Psalm 116:12
give us courage right now?
Elaine.
Well, Jehovah has always
done well for us in the past,
so we can trust he’ll do the same
for us now and in the future.
Thank you.
Josh.
That’s so true
that he has always done
good things for us.
But from what I’ve seen,
what really makes a difference
is how we respond
to that goodness.
For some
in the congregation,
those good things
became a test of their loyalty.
. . . continue with our meeting.
We have a letter to read.
“To all congregations
of Jehovah’s Witnesses:
“Dear Brothers and Sisters,
If we are to have Jehovah’s favor
and blessing as individuals, . . . ”
They found fault
with what the organization
was doing or not doing.
“. . .  as we work together
with you shoulder to shoulder.
Your brothers,
The Christian . . . ”
Now, paragraph 12
gives more detail
on our adjusted understanding
of this exciting account.
Let’s read it.
Brother Perez,
please read paragraph 12 for us.
“Soon . . . ”
They criticized any teaching
or arrangement they didn’t agree with.
And whether
they realized it or not,
their critical attitude
was eroding their own loyalty,
and it was affecting others.
Now, before we ask the question
for that paragraph,
who would like to read
Psalm 116:12?
Kyle, please.
Eventually,
some were
no longer our brothers.
But the more grateful
our family was
for what Jehovah gave us,
the stronger our attachment
to him became.
So I’ve learned
to have appreciation for everything,
everything Jehovah
has done for us
and for his organization.
It’s helped us all
make it to this point,
and I’m sure
it will help us stay loyal
through the rest
of the great tribulation.
I know that look.
You have an experience,
don’t you?
I do,
but it’s. . .
It can’t be anything
I don’t already know!
Well, it’s not exactly
on my list of things
to share
with my little brother.
There’s no pressure,
Elaine.
Only tell it if you want to.
It’s OK.
For me,
I struggled
with negative thinking.
No way!
Yeah.
But I had
a good friend
who always helped
and listened
and helped me
learn how to fight it,
and I’ll always
be grateful.
I would pray,
but at times the feelings
were so strong,
I didn’t know what to do.
I know.
That must be
so hard for you.
Will I ever stop
feeling like this?
Don’t worry
about if it’s going to stop.
Let’s talk about ways
you can take control
when it happens.
Take control?
Uh-huh.
You know, the Scriptures
tell us as Christians
that we pray
for self-control in our actions.
But do you know, we need
that same self-control
for our thoughts?
I never thought about it
that way before.
Uh-huh.
The Scriptures tell us how.
Can we read one together?
Yeah.
I’d really like that.
It’s in 2 Corinthians chapter 10,
in verse number 5.
You’re going
to like this scripture,
chapter 10 and verse 5.
Do you feel like reading it?
OK.
“For we are overturning
“reasonings
and every lofty thing
“raised up
against the knowledge of God,
“and we are bringing
every thought into captivity
to make it
obedient to the Christ.”
Karen showed me
what it meant
to bring my negative thoughts
into captivity
and then make them
obedient to the Christ.
I had to know
what my negative thoughts were,
all of them,
and write them down.
And for each one,
find what Jehovah thinks,
and then find scriptures
that I could remember each time
that negative thought returned.
I kept that list with me
at all times.
It was a slow process,
but with Jehovah’s help,
and with Karen’s,
I’ve learned how to fight
the battle against negative thoughts.
Elaine, that was
so brave of you to share.
Well, just listening
to everyone else’s stories about loyalty,
it made me think
about what I needed to do to stay loyal.
Now, Elaine,
if you don’t mind me asking,
how did you see
that as a test of loyalty?
Well,
one scripture I memorized,
1 Corinthians 9:25, says:
“Now everyone
competing in a contest
exercises self-control
in all things.”
So if Jehovah is telling me
I need to exercise self-control
in all things,
even my thinking,
then I’m loyal
to Jehovah when I try.
Elaine, you are to be commended
for what you did
and for seeing the need. . .
Hey.
Shelly!
I’m so glad
you guys made it safely.
It’s getting bad
out there now.
Chris, were you able
to check on all of the other groups?
Yes, Brother Brown.
I took a count of each group.
Thank you.
So you’ve been visiting
each group,
even with all
that’s going on out there?
Yes, but there have been
some scary moments.
Still, we’re going to shepherd
all the groups
for as long as we still can.
The brothers really appreciate
you making the sacrifice to do this,
and you too, Shelly,
for supporting Chris.
Is everybody OK?
Everyone’s fine.
They’re getting used
to doing without,
some for the first time.
You and Shelly set a good example
for keeping your life simple.
Thanks, but honestly,
that wasn’t always the case.
What do you mean?
Well, one day,
we were watching
the video We Live a Simple Life,
and it really helped us
to take a good look at our lives.
We were both pioneering
but still living a comfortable life.
And we started wondering.
Our love for Jehovah
moved us to pioneer,
but could it move us
to take the next step?
After meditating
and praying about it,
the answer
became obvious.
We sold our house,
found a little apartment
in the territory,
took some time to adjust,
but what it did
for our relationship with Jehovah
was so worth it.
With nothing to tie us down,
we were blessed to go
to the School for Kingdom Evangelizers,
and then
that’s when you all met us.
I remember
when you guys moved here,
everything you owned
fit into your car and trailer.
Yeah.
How much longer
will this keep up?
Chris, please say
another prayer for us.
Then I think we should look
at some more scriptures
that will help us.
Do you see anything?
Do you see any Witnesses?
Where are they?
Psalm 27
is really going to help us:
“Jehovah is my light
and my salvation.
“Whom should I fear?
“Jehovah is the stronghold
of my life.
“Whom should I dread?
“When evil men attacked me
to devour my flesh,
“my adversaries and my enemies
“were the ones
who stumbled and fell.
“Though an army
should set up camp against me,
“my heart will not fear.
“Though war
should break out against me,
“even then
I will remain confident.
“One thing I have asked
from Jehovah . . .
“Where would I be
if I did not have faith
“that I would see Jehovah’s goodness
in the land of the living?
“Hope in Jehovah;
“be courageous and strong of heart.
“Yes,
hope in Jehovah.”
Thank you,
Brother Brown.
That psalm is
very faith-strengthening.
It is, Chris.
Especially the question
at verse 13:
“Where would I be
if I did not have faith?”
I think all of us can identify
with that question.
Absolutely!
Without faith,
none of us would be here.
All of us here
and all of our brothers everywhere
at this hour,
we can all feel good
that we’ve worked hard
to build faith
in Jehovah’s promises.
We’ve all resisted temptations
to serve God halfheartedly,
with a date in mind
or for some selfish reason.
Instead of just going
through the motions
of being a disciple,
our faith is real.
It’s genuine.
Paul called that faith,
“faith without hypocrisy.”
And to have seen you build
that kind of faith
just warms my heart.
You studied God’s Word
to better understand his ways
and his promises.
That has made your faith strong today.
You reasoned
on Jehovah’s past dealings with you,
and that has given you strength
to remain loyal under test.
And your faith
has led you here
as loyal servants of Jehovah,
confident that Psalm 97:10
applies to you personally:
“[Jehovah] is guarding
the lives of his loyal ones.”
Where are they?
Check the basement!
Check that door!